Quick Reference (#422)
FredTheDino/sylt-lang: docs/quick-reference.adoc

= Sylt Quick Reference

Here you will find most things in Sylt in a concise format.

.Variables
[source, sylt]
----

> constant :: 3.14

Reviewer: Maybe `pi_constant`? Or something?

Author: I would say no. I could change the value if it is distracting.

variable := []
two: int : 2
text: str = "abc"
----

.If-else statements
[source, sylt]
----
if 1 < 0 do
    // ...
else if "hello" == "" do
    // ...
else do
    // ...
end

one :: 1 if true else 2

> two :: one + 1 if == 2 else -1 // <1>

Reviewer: Better example? These don't give me a lot of information. Maybe an example function?

Author: I know the example does not show that much, but perhaps it will not be a problem when we can link to the more comprehensive guide.

= Sylt Quick Reference
:favicon: sylt.png

> Here you will find most things in Sylt in a concise format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you will find most things in the Sylt language in a concise format.
```
:3

.Variables
[source, sylt]
----
constant :: 3.14
variable := []
two: int : 2
text: str = "abc"
text = "A short sentence."  // <1>
----

> <1> A single `=` is used to set the value of a variable after declaration with
> `:=`.

Reviewer: This reads poorly to me, I don't know...

```suggestion
<1> A single `=` is used to mutate and set the value of a mutable variable.
Mutable variables are declared with `:=`.
```
?

Author: Updated the formulation a bit.

.If-else statements
[source, sylt]
----
if 1 < 0 do
    // ...
else if "hello" == "" do
    // ...
else do
    // ...
end

one :: 1 if true else 2
two :: one + 1 if == 2 else -1 // <1>
----

> <1> The left hand side is inserted right after `if`

Reviewer: Maybe say what it can be expanded to? I'm not 100% sure what you mean by this.

Author: The guide covers this, which probably means the link to it should be here.

.Operators
[source, sylt]
----
1 + 1
2 - 2
3 * 3
10 / 2
-4

1 < 2
2 > 1
1 <= 1
1 >= 1
"a" == "a"

[1, 2] <=> [1, 2]  // Assert equal

(1 + 1) * 2

true or false
true and true
not true
----

.Functions
[source, sylt]
----
hello :: fn do
    print("Hello world")
end

add :: fn x: int, y: int -> int do
    ret x + y
end

two_squared :: fn n: int -> int do n * n end(2)  // <1>

// Different ways of calling functions

hello()
print("Hello, world!")
add(1, 2)

hello'
print' "Hello, world!"
add' 1, 2

"Hello, world!" -> print()
1 -> add' 2

[1, 2, 3] -> for_each' fn n: int do
    print(n)
end
----

> <1> This creates a function which returns implicitly and calls it immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> This creates a function with an implicit return. The function is called it immediately.
```
The given phrasing can mean that the implicitly returned _value_ is called. I think this phrasing is less prone to misinterpretation.

.Types
[source, sylt]
----
// Basic types

integer: int = 100
decimal: float = 1.5
string: str = "hello"
boolean: bool = true
list: [int] = [1, 2, 3]
tuple: (str, float) = ("cookies", 1.5)
dict: {str: int} = {"a": 1, "b": 2}
set: {int} = {1, 2, 3}
function: fn -> void = fn do end
nothing: void = nil

// Other types

forced_int: !int = "str"
union: int | str = 1
union = "now a string"
maybe_int: int? = nil
maybe_int = 1

// Special cases

empty_dict := {:}
empty_set := {}
empty_tuple: () = ()

> one_element_tuple: (int,) = (1,)

Reviewer: Dislike calling these special cases...

Reviewer 2: Maybe "disambiguating"?

Author: Changed it to "Disambiguation"

----

.Blobs
[source, sylt]
----
Player :: blob {
    x: float,
    update: fn float -> void,
}

// A Player "constructor"
new_player :: fn -> Player do
    player: !Player = nil
    player = Player {
        x: 0.0,
        update: fn delta: float do
            player.x += delta
        end
    }
    ret player
end

player :: new_player()
player.update(0.5)
print(player.x)

> ----

Reviewer: Maybe mention the duck-typing here?
